# Lists

Definition lists, numbered and ordered lists are all supported in gmnhg.

## Definition lists

The lists of definitions get converted into regular unordered lists, prefixed with a star (`*`) as specified by Gemini spec p. 5.5.2.

gmnhg
* a program to generate a Gemini site from an existing Hugo site
* a library converting Markdown to Gemtext, based on gomarkdown

md2gmn
* a program to convert Markdown to Gemtext
* a wrapper to the gmnhg library

## Normal lists

* This is the first item of an unordered list.
* This is its second item.
* This is a list item that was using the `+` sign. Gemini readers should see this item as the continuation of the previous list.

1. This is an ordered list first item.
2. This is the second item.

## Lists containing a sub-list

As there's no indented list line type in Gemtext, gmnhg will indent these with tabs. The tabs number is equivalent to list level minus one (e.g. single tab for second list level).

Unordered lists can be children of ordered lists, and vice versa.

* This item contains a child ordered list.
	1. This ordered list item should get picked up as regular text.
	2. Whether or not this looks nicely depends on the client.
* This item contains a child definition list.
	Markdown
	* an overly complex text markup format invented in 2004 whose sole specification of CommonMark lacks both tables and footnotes
	* a text format that has zero parsers completely compatible between each other.

1. This item contains a child unordered list.
	* This whole list should get treated as plain text by clients.

## Links of lists

A special case of lists consisting solely of links to something is documented in the links test document.

=> links.md links test document
